RDE (Runtime Defined Entities) framework support with RDE Type resource and data source (2/3) (#973)
vmware/terraform-provider-vcd: website/docs/r/rde_type.html.markdown

---
layout: "vcd"
page_title: "VMware Cloud Director: vcd_rde_type"
sidebar_current: "docs-vcd-resource-rde-type"
description: |-
   Provides the capability of creating, updating, and deleting Runtime Defined Entity types in VMware Cloud Director.
---

# vcd\_rde\_type

Provides the capability of creating, updating, and deleting Runtime Defined Entity types in VMware Cloud Director.
Requires system administrator privileges.

Supported in provider *v3.9+*

> 

Reviewer: Would we want to add a note about operations on RDE type being run in serial due to API? Or is that too much for the user for this use case? How long does it take to create these types in practice?

CC: @dataclouder @Didainius @adezxc

Author: I don't think it's needed, even they run sequentially they're created almost immediately. It is not like VMs, for example, which require some time to be created.

Author: I don't think it's needed, even they run sequentially they're created almost immediately. It is not like VMs, for example, which require some time to be created.

Reviewer 2: I was going to say we don't need that, but just thinking if there can ever be such situation that RDE types are created from different Terraform instances (then locks will not work).

Not sure if we're too cautious here.

Reviewer: Too small probability for now, IMHO.

> ## Example Usage with a schema file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example Usage with a local schema file
```

Author: Changed, thanks!

```hcl
data "vcd_rde_interface" "my_interface" {
  vendor  = "bigcorp"
  nss     = "tech1"
  version = "1.2.3"
}

resource "vcd_rde_type" "my_rde_type" {
  vendor        = "vmware"
  nss           = "vcd"
  version       = "4.5.6"
  name          = "My VMware RDE Type"
  interface_ids = [data.vcd_rde_interface.my_interface.id]
  schema        = file("${path.module}/schemas/my-type-schema.json")
}
```

> ## Example Usage with a URL that contains a schema file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example Usage with a URL hosting the schema file
```

Author: Changed, thanks!

```hcl
data "vcd_rde_interface" "my_interface" {
  vendor  = "bigcorp"
  ns      = "tech1"
  version = "1.2.3"
}

resource "vcd_rde_type" "my_rde_type" {
  vendor        = "vmware"
  nss           = "vcd"
  version       = "4.5.6"
  name          = "My VMware RDE Type"
  interface_ids = [data.vcd_rde_interface.my_interface.id]
  schema_url    = "https://just.an-example.com/schemas/my-type-schema.json"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

> 

Reviewer: Looks like we need a similar message here about the 3-tuple as you had here:
https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/blob/main/website/docs/r/rde_interface.html.markdown#argument-reference

Author: Added.

* `vendor` - (Required) The vendor of the Runtime Defined Entity Type.
* `nss` - (Required) A unique namespace associated with the Runtime Defined Entity Type.
* `version` - (Required) The version of the Runtime Defined Entity Type. Must follow [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) syntax.
* `name` - (Required) The name of the Runtime Defined Entity Type.
* `description` - (Optional) The description of the Runtime Defined Entity Type.
* `interface_ids` - (Optional) The set of [Defined Interfaces](/providers/vmware/vcd/latest/docs/resources/rde_interface) that this Runtime Defined Entity Type will use.

> * `schema` - (Optional) A string that specifies a valid JSON schema. It can be retrieved with functions such as `file`, `templatefile`... Either `schema` or `schema_url` is required.

Reviewer: What is the thought behind having the three dots here: "`templatefile`..."?

Author: Maybe I should put `etc` instead.

Reviewer: Thanks. Maybe also "with functions" -> "with Terraform functions"?

Author: Done!

* `schema_url` - (Optional) The URL that points to a valid JSON schema. Either `schema` or `schema_url` is required.
  If `schema_url` is used, the downloaded schema will be computed in the `schema` attribute.

> * `external_id` - (Optional) An external entity's id that this Runtime Defined Entity Type may apply to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `external_id` - (Optional) An external entity's ID that this Runtime Defined Entity Type may apply to.
```

Author: Changed, thanks!
